Hi, everybody. Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel Dempsey. I lead Customer
Marketing at Posit. Posit, if you are joining a Hangout without knowing who we are, we are
the open source data science company building tools for the individual team and enterprise.
Thanks so much for taking the time out of your day to hang out with us. The Hangout
is our open space to hear what's going on in the world of data across different industries
and to connect with others who are facing similar things as you. And we get together
here every Thursday at the same time, same place. We do have one week we're taking off
August 15th for the week of Posit Count. And so I know I've asked this many times before,
but if anyone from the Hangout will be there in person, please let me know in the chat.
I'm trying to get some people together one of the days of the conference as well. But
if you want to join us virtually, you can as well. And let me, bad at multitasking here,
let me put this into the chat. If you want to register to join the conference virtually
too. And I always like to add, if you're watching this Hangout as a recording and you want to
join us live in the future, we'd love to have you join us. And there's details to add
it to your calendar below. Just make sure it adds it for 12 Eastern time. I know people
really enjoy connecting with other attendees here in the Hangout in the chat. So if you
want to use this time now to introduce yourself, say hello, maybe share where you're based
or something you like to do for fun, feel free. I love to see people connecting there
and making friends from the Hangout. We're all dedicated to keeping this the friendly
and welcoming space that you all have made it and love hearing from you no matter your
years of experience, titles, the languages you work in, or the industry that you work
in. Another quick note, if you're hiring, you can also share those roles in the chat
too. But today, if you want to jump in and ask questions or provide your own perspective,
you can raise your hand on Zoom. I'll call on you to jump in. You could put questions
in the Zoom chat and feel free to put a little asterisk or star next to it if you want me
to read it. Or I could call on you to introduce yourself and add some context. And then lastly,
we do have a Slido link where you could ask a question anonymously too. And I'm sure Curtis
will be sharing that here in the chat in just a second. But thank you all again for joining
us. I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host today, Shannon Pileggi, Lead Data Scientist
at the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Consortium. And Shannon, I'd love to have you kick us
off with introducing yourself, share a little bit about your role today, but also something
you do outside of work too.
Sure. So my name is Shannon Pileggi. My background is in biostatistics. I was a college professor
for a few years, and I worked in market research for a few years. And more recently, I've been
in clinical trials for the past three years, and it's my happy place now. Outside of data
science, I recently got into a gym in my local town. It's a community-owned gym. I go six
days a week. I'm really into weightlifting. And I was thinking about it this morning,
and I feel like it's not entirely unlike what we do in data science, and that you're
constantly pushing yourself to failure and iterating and figuring out what works and
moving on and getting stronger.
I love that. Thank you. I also wanted to add, I know in the years that we've had the data
science Hangout, I've seen a lot of Shannon's blog posts recommended here in the Zoom chat
over the years. So I just wanted to make sure to share your blog here in the chat too.
Thank you.
But Shannon, I think just to get us started, I'd love to hear a little bit more about your
journey into data science and how you got started.
Yeah, sure. I mean, being a college professor, I knew about statistics, and I knew about
programming, and it eventually got a little frustrating that I was sending people out
in the world to tackle cool programming problems, but not having any experience doing so myself.
And so I was ready to make a change. And so my first industry position was more statistics-oriented.
And as I started doing that more, I realized I had more fun learning about the programming
side. And so in my current role, I am definitely more programming-focused and less statistics-focused.
But I would say I've been using R since about 2005.
Awesome. Thank you. Well, I get to ask some of the questions in the beginning as we wait
for them to come in from everybody. But something I was curious to ask you about, because I
saw one of your recent blog posts around working with Excel and R, and I wanted to
learn a little more from you on the collaboration between data science teams and business stakeholders
who prefer Excel. And I was wondering if you had any tips or lessons learned for us.
Yeah. I mean, a lot of what we do is we have to work with other people to put together
reports. And in an ideal world, we could seam together our reproducible tables and
their narrative. But we're not going to onboard our partners to GitHub and teach them how
to use Markdown. I mean, obviously, they could learn that, but that's just not realistic
for where we're at. So we often do produce tables in Excel for them to paste into the
reports as they need to. And it's just it's what works right now.
Yeah, I think the post I saw was about exporting a table.
Yeah. I mean, Excel is like a pretty like gnarly beast to tackle, especially like you
get used to like so much like really pretty formatting from GT tables and like you're
like doing all these beautiful things in HTML and then you try to dump it into Excel and
like none of the beautiful things come out right.
And so that recent post was just about some tips you can use, like intermediate workflows
and steps to like make the formatting come out as close as possible to what you
specified. But it's still not perfect.
Would you actually be able to give us a few examples of some of the projects that you
work on in your role just to kind of put us in your everyday mindset?
Yeah. And so I work on clinical trials and we deal with a large amount of data.
And so part of the work that we do is to ensure that we're getting data in a timely
manner and that we're getting good quality data.
So we might be making monitoring reports, looking like holistically at all of the
sites that are enrolling in clinical trials, like are they doing a good job and
entering certain fields?
And does the data look like of good quality?
And obviously we have different ways to assess that.
Other types of like standard reports we do are safety reports for different monitoring
agencies where we're looking at adverse event reporting and stuff like that.
Thank you. I see Abigail had asked a question in the chat and I'll read it, but it
was in 2005, did your employer teach you R or did you learn it yourself on the side?
How did you learn about R initially?
Yeah, 2005, that was back in graduate school.
So we definitely had graduate school courses in R and that was my first exposure.
I also learned SAS when I was a college professor.
I taught both R and SAS programming.
And then when I moved into my first industry position, our team was mixed.
So we were R programmers and SPSS programmers and also people who are very good at
writing like Excel macros and like doing crazy things in Excel that I've never done
before. And so I would say, you know, that job more and more started to encourage and
support the use of R, especially as they saw like the powerful things we could do in
Shiny and Connect.
So far, everyone's making me read the questions.
I see Bill said, is there a list of packages specifically related to oncology research
and reporting? And that's widely used in SAS.
There are the standard procs and visualizations.
What would be the basic toolkit for reporting the results of a cancer trial to a
regulatory agency?
My basic toolkit is GT summary.
It's my favorite package for making tables.
I think it's flexible and can do pretty much everything you need it to do.
And our bread and butter in reporting of trials is tables.
Shannon, I know you're really involved in the community.
I think that's very clear from all the ways you're going to be involved in the POSIT
conference, as well as I thought you were at USAR and you're involved with RLadies.
I'd love to just hear a little bit about that and how you got involved with the
community to begin with and especially RLadies leadership, too.
Yeah, so getting involved in the community was definitely baby steps.
You have to start somewhere.
I think it was a little easier when Twitter existed or people were active on Twitter.
And so some of the first things I did was start blogging that helped me to get to know
people as they gave me feedback on the blog posts.
Another really cool program that I enjoyed was when we were on Twitter, I served as RLadies
curator for Twitter, where they had a rotating person each week showcase like things that
they did in R. And that helped me get to know more people in the community.
And through that role, I eventually joined the RLadies global team to support the Twitter
curation program.
And unfortunately, we had to retire that as we decided to leave Twitter.
And then fairly soon after that, there was a call for volunteers to step up to join the
leadership team.
And so I said, yes, and so now I've been on the leadership team for about a year and a
half now. And what that means is that for the RLadies organization, we are a nonprofit
and we have a board of directors.
So I am one of five individuals on the board of directors.
And yeah.
That's awesome. I see Adam had a kind of a follow up question here when you mentioned
blogging. Adam, do you want to jump in?
Yeah, you said the word as I was typing the question, but good to speak with you.
So I'm just curious about just kind of a question was how you got into blogging, which I
think you partially answered, but also how do you come up with the ideas for your blog
posts and kind of like what keeps you going?
Because I know that a blog is something that I've thought about doing.
I'm just like, I don't even know, like, how am I going to get into it?
Am I going to have enough steam to keep going?
Yeah, I mean, part of like I explained that that market research job had so many mixed
skills in terms of programming that like not everyone appreciated the cool things I was
doing in art. And I thought they were cool.
And I kind of felt like they were just kind of sitting on a computer, like going to
waste. And I was like, this is the thought.
So I wanted to get it out into the world.
And so I just had to think carefully about what I could do that was shareable or frame
it in a different context that was shareable.
And so that's what got me started.
As far as like what keeps it going, I think having an infrastructure that just works
keeps it going. You know, you see a lot of people talk about like, oh, I went to go like
make a blog post and all of a sudden I figured out I had to like update things on my
website and everything broke and I couldn't get my post out there.
And that's like not a happy place.
I think a lot of like the technology has changed so that you don't have to live in that
unhappy place anymore.
I'm like super pleased because my blog is built in Distil, which was like predated
Quarto. And I always think about updating my blog to Quarto.
But, you know, like every time I go back to blog, like it still works.
So like why?
Like the infrastructure is there and it's easy.
And now I can put my energy into like writing a new blog post when I have the time
instead of updating my actual blog infrastructure.
As far as like the motivation to keep blogging goes, like I just kind of like writing.
And if I don't, if I go too long without writing, I get a little itch to start writing
again. I was putting like pressure on myself when I started to have goals to like blog
once a month. And now with assuming other responsibilities, especially with our
leadership team, those goals are like not sustainable and not realistic.
And so now I'm just happy when I get one out.
Thank you, Jacob.
I see you had a question a little bit earlier.
You want to jump in next?
Yeah, I was just wondering if you mentioned being on the board, so do you feel like
it's it would be necessary to have someone at that C-suite level or like a board
member or CDO in order to advance data science?
I mean, I guess maybe I could use a little bit more context of your question, like for
the Our Ladies board of director, our mission is specifically aimed at empowering
gender minorities in our spaces.
We're not necessarily aimed at advancing data science, but just empowering those
voices. Oh, I misunderstood.
I thought you were saying that you were on the board, that you're a company.
I didn't realize that was in the context of Our Ladies, sorry.
Yeah, yeah, no worries.
Yeah, but I think that question probably still applies to like maybe at a broader
level, but how would you advise some of us advocating for data science in our
companies if we don't yet have someone at the executive level supporting it?
Yeah, I think you got to get someone in the door.
I don't know how you I think when you advocate for things in your company, like
sometimes you can start small and you can start grassroots and you're like you get
all the people in your level and you agree that this is like the best way to move
forward. And like it just never happens.
And then at some time, some point you just have to take it straight to the top.
And if that leadership doesn't agree, then like it's just not going to happen.
But it's sometimes that's like the best way to get it moving instead of grassroots.
I see there's.
I'm trying to keep up with some of the questions and comments on SAS in here as
well, but I think it was.
Rebecca, no, Elizabeth, you had a question about like pushing for our and relation to
SAS, you want to jump in and add context or ask about that?
And maybe it was partially a joke, but I see you referring to the SAS mafia.
But I think that maybe a broader question I can I can ask is there's a lot of people
I've noticed who are joining the Hangouts who maybe are having to use SAS in their
roles, but wanting to start using R and what are the ways that they can.
Start doing that and making the switch.
Yeah, I mean, I think sometimes you have to ask like depending on where you are and do
this like very carefully, but like sometimes you have to ask for forgiveness instead of
permission, like no one's going to people might not be like, yeah, go use R and do
do this different thing.
But if you can show them something really cool that you did in R and some capabilities
that you don't have in SAS, then that's what is going to get people excited about it.
A conversation I would love to open up with the community here, because I see a lot I
know you mentioned like Twitter was a great way for people to find out about new things
and new packages.
And now a lot of our community isn't over there as often.
And I just wanted to know, how do you keep up to date on new things now?
So our weekly still runs, they used to actually have a mailing service where you would get
the email with the weekly emails and that mailing service is down and has been down.
But the curators are actually still working every week to curate content and like
aggregate all of those posts.
So it's still a really good resource if you remember to go check it out yourself.
And then the other thing I do is I listen to Eric Nance, our podcast and Michael, because
they talk about the top three highlights from the R weekly posts, and they add like a really
nice layer of context and depth and conversation around those posts about their own personal
experiences.
And I think that's a really nice way to stay on top of something.
Thank you.
Yeah, I'm curious to hear from everyone in the chat as well.
I see a few other links being shared.
But I was just wondering how people learn about new packages as well.
Well, Shannon, a question I always like to ask everybody here at the Hangout, and I'll get to
ask it now.
But what is there a piece of career advice that you've either given to somebody or that you've
received over the span of your career so far that you'd like to share with us?
I can't think necessarily about received, but we do have an intern right now at our group, and
she's very lovely to work with, and I believe she is on this call.
She is going to be graduating from college in the next year, and she's a little frazzled about what
she's going to do for her first job.
And I keep telling her to relax.
It is your first job, and it's not going to be your forever job, right?
Like, your career is about iteration.
You're going to take what you get in your first job, and hopefully it's a good one.
But you're going to learn what you like to do, and you're going to learn what you don't like to
do, and you're going to iterate and move on from there.
And just because it's your first job, it doesn't necessarily lock you into that career path
forever.
I love that.
Thank you.
I see Neil asked a question a little bit earlier that was, could you give any leadership advice on
how to bring people together and get a diverse range of views and ensure people are heard?
Bringing people together and getting a diverse range of views is really about creating a very
safe place for people to talk, like a place like this.
So, you need a safe environment, and that comes in a lot of different ways.
There's quite a bit of infrastructure and thought that goes into creating that safe
environment.
So, for example, with Our Ladies, some things that we have are our code of conduct that
explains, like, what sorts of behaviors, like, will not be tolerated in our events and other
things that you can do to provide that infrastructure or provide suggestions or ways
that people can communicate in that environment, which Rachel does so good at here, right?
She tells you, you can drop questions in the chat, you can post questions anonymously, you
can star them if you want to read them yourself, right?
It's really explicit how to interact in this environment.
And the person on the other end of the call, like, doesn't have to guess about, like, what
should I do?
Am I going to go on camera?
Like, what's the process here, right?
There's no guesswork for that person.
So, that, like, tension and trepidation that a person might feel about interacting in that
environment is removed because you know exactly what to do.
So, I think when you are trying to build diverse communities, you need to set up that
infrastructure to make people safe, but also to guide people on how to interact.
Thank you, Shannon.
And thank you for, I mean, I was looking back on LinkedIn in 2021 when we were talking
about the Data Science Hangout and how to make sure it was welcoming and inclusive.
And I remember you and I and I think Libby got on a chat and we're just kind of going
through some ideas and just brainstorming with each other.
And I really appreciate that.
And I can't believe how much time has passed from that.
But I just wanted to share that out with the community, too, if you are hoping to start
your own group or just kind of want to float some ideas past someone here, you can
always reach out to me about how to make sure that things are welcoming and inclusive.
It's definitely an iterative process in the beginning to just make sure that you're
addressing all these different ways to have people interact.
Yeah, just wanted to add that.
I see Kylie just asked a question in the chat, do you want to jump in?
Yeah, sure, thanks.
Hi, Shannon, I'm also a fellow co-organizer of Our Ladies, so just the Amsterdam
chapter. It's a bit later in the day for me.
But I was actually interested in asking you a bit about something you said much earlier
on about how you're now on clinical trials and that's your happy place and you were a
professor for a while and then you were in market research.
And I'm just kind of wondering how did you, one, decide to switch between those very
different sectors and then also how you navigated it?
Yeah, I mean, when I left teaching and it was like two factor decision, one that I had
to relocate to be closer to my family, and I actually like really loved the department.
I was teaching and I feel like the best place in the world is like an undergraduate
statistics program that truly cares deeply about teaching and teaching well.
And I had so much fun there.
But I also explained earlier that I was a little frustrated that I wasn't doing my own
data science problems.
I wasn't advancing my own data science knowledge.
I felt like I was further behind than my students in programming and R.
And so I decided when it was time to move, if I couldn't teach in the best place that I
thought was the best place in the world, I was not going to teach anymore.
And so and I needed to advance my own skill set.
And so the first position I took in market research was like a really nice fit for me to
learn more about industry and how things operate outside of the academic world.
It was different, you know, but it wasn't quite my favorite flavor of science.
And I realized I kind of missed that more rigorous environment.
And that's so that's why I'm so glad I ended up in clinical trials because it blends what
like and pushing the edge of what you can do on data science, but also has that like nice,
rigorous environment to it as well.
And then if I may, can I ask a follow up question?
Of course.
Yeah.
So then I have also recently I saw that at the Posit Conf that there's going to be this
summit about open source and pharmaceutical companies.
And I always thought that those two may not go hand in hand.
So I am curious about sort of how you use open source tools like R and R packages and
things like that in a environment that needs to be very sort of closed and secure and sort
of how that those two are balanced.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm super lucky that the team I came into like it's a brand new team and didn't
exist before, which means that there was like no legacy code existing like to protect.
Right.
So we were a brand new team.
We were writing code from scratch, which meant like we could choose our own tool set and
our tool set of choice was R and that was clear, you know, that that's the direction
that we were going.
As far as like industry standards, like it is accepted now that you can do R programming
in clinical trials.
Right.
But that's that's not the pushback or the barrier as much the pushback or the barrier
is that like like a large portion of the industry is trained in SAS and a large portion of the
pharmaceutical companies have a ton of existing framework built upon SAS macros.
Right.
So that is like really hard inertia to change both the training and the technical
infrastructure.
But you'll see that a lot of larger pharmaceutical companies are have their own entire
software engineering teams now where their jobs are to build R packages for internal
processes to make that technical transition easier.
And so a lot of the pharmaceutical companies are moving in that direction towards are at
least trying to move the needle.
So, thanks.
And Kylie, I shared a link in the chat, which might be helpful, but it has some cool pharma
customer stories there as well.
Oh, cool.
Thanks.
I'll go and find it.
Absolutely.
Okay, let me double check any questions I'm missing in the chat.
I love seeing the conversations happen, but sometimes I lose the questions there.
Shannon, I know I think it was your blog post last year where you did like a year
summary and you mentioned moving into more of a managerial role.
Can you tell us about some of the lessons learned in moving into that managerial role
that you share with some new managers here?
Sure.
So, I was more at first like an individual contributor, just writing my own code, and
then our team grew, and then I had one direct report, and it grew again, and I had two direct
reports, and it grew again, and I had three direct reports.
And then all of a sudden, I was in a place where I found that I might have been giving
the same feedback individually to the three direct reports instead of having a cohesive
place where I documented my expectations and made those clear upfront.
So, that was something that I had to move towards to make sure, and it probably wasn't
a something I could have done in the beginning because I didn't know what my expectations
were.
And specifically, this is around code review and code submission.
So, part of my managerial role is that the new contributors will submit code and submit
pull requests, and I'm looking for two different things in that code.
I'm first looking like does the code actually do what it needs to do, which is one question.
But sometimes part of the harder question is did the code think about the data correctly?
And in that sense, what I mean is that when you work with clinical trials data, like our
data comes to us in a relational database type format with like 90 different data sets.
And so, there's a lot of nuance in understanding how the data capture works, and that takes
experience to get used to.
So, it's not just like did your code work right, but like did you bring in the appropriate
data from the appropriate data sets to make this conclusion?
And so, I'm reviewing a lot of code, and I was giving feedback individually, and then
I realized I'm giving the same feedback over and over again, and I've got to document this
to make it clear.
And I think once I did that, people were like oh my gosh, you told me, and now I understand.
Like now that I've seen it all written out, like this makes sense.
Thank you.
I know code review is something we kind of like went off on a few weeks ago, and there
was like a mission on the code review.
Okay.
So, I don't know if anyone had any follow-up questions based on that, too.
What was the cliff notes from that?
I will have to go get those resources shared.
I mean, I think code review is like such a big part of it, but I don't know if there's
anything else you want to add to that.
Yeah, I think code review is like such an interesting thing, because there's like this
very traditional context of code review in software engineering, where you're like writing
functions for packages, you're doing unit tests, you're making sure the code does exactly
what it says it's going to do, but that's like not the type of code review that I do.
Like we're doing code review for data analysis, and I think that's a much different flavor
documentation available, and I actually, I made my thoughts on it public on GitHub.
If one of my friends on the call right now wants to go find that link and drop it in,
that would be great.
And you're welcome to read it, look through my thoughts, contribute anything back, and
I made it public because I think it's, some of the things are kind of like still kind
of internal to our team, but some of the things I think can more broadly apply to other
teams, and I put it in a GitHub repo and not a blog post because I feel like it's going
to be changing and evolving as I continue to think about it, and I also would love like
other people's feedback on it.
Thank you, Megan.
Thank you.
Laura, I see you mentioned you're interested in high-level code review tips.
Do you want to jump in and share any context or introduce yourself?
Yeah, no, I was just, you know, listening in, and I heard Shannon mention that that's
specifically sort of what she was focusing in on.
I have a survey, I taught myself R, and in the process of teaching myself R, and I'm
trying to help a colleague just review some of her code for a survey analysis that we're
doing.
So, we're like, you know, coalescing the data, cleaning the data, and then we're going
to be doing the analysis and then report output from all from R.
So, I do see the link that Shannon's colleague put in there, so I'm going to check that out,
but yeah, if you have any other sort of like high-level tips, that would be useful.
There's maybe a better way to ask that, but that's, you know.
No, I mean, I think when you're working in a team on code, you kind of have to have,
especially if you're working long-term, or like, I don't know if this is a one-off
project or not, but like you kind of have to hone in on like what your preferred style
of coding is so that we can all read the code independently and smoothly without having
to guess what's going on, kind of have things in the same order and lining up.
But in terms of like tips for code review, maybe I can work on that more.
I mean, one of my goals over the next year is going to be for me to do less code review
and for my direct reports to be doing more code review of each other and me so that they
flip the role, and I think as we do that conversation, we'll learn more about like
processes about what works for everyone in terms of it.
But it's a pretty painstaking process, to be honest, to go through everything line by line
and validate the results as well to make sure that the tables are coming out right,
that the numbers are lining up, but it has to be done.
Yeah, I'm feeling that.
It is very painstaking, and this is a one-off project, and we are a new team,
and we are starting to build our capabilities, and so I'm trying to also get more familiar
with GitHub so we can work as a team in that space as things move on and evolve.
Yeah, I'll have to follow you as you evolve that information as well.
My initial tip, because you mentioned it, would then be allocate a lot of time,
because it takes more time than you think, and probably as much or I'm not even sure what
fraction, but possibly as much time as it took that person to write the code.
Okay.
All right.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Libby, I see you asked a question a bit earlier around the R community.
Do you want to jump in?
Sure.
I lost it, but it was definitely like how has being active in the community
changed your trajectory, do you think, or opened up opportunities for you?
I'm often talking to people who are very, very hesitant to start interacting in the
community or start posting things or just start talking about what they know,
and I wish that I could give them an example of an experience like,
look, this is how expansive it could be for you.
It is so expansive.
Yeah.
I would say there's immense...
I mean, you put in the investment when you do start interacting with the community,
and it's hard and it's scary, but the returns on it are so immense, right?
Previously, before I started blogging, or maybe even initially when I started blogging,
I felt like I had to figure everything out by myself, and I would just spend hours googling
things and being kind of unhappy and chasing dead ends and not getting the answer to my
questions and being frustrated.
And then when you're part of a community, you can just ask for help and skip that eight
hours, and you can get help pretty fast.
So there's huge time savings there, and it's fun, and you get to learn what other people's
areas of expertise are.
So that's huge.
Azuka had asked a question in the chat a little bit earlier.
It was, do you think there's a difference between a data scientist, data analyst, and
a statistician?
If a new grad asked you what they should major in for an MS program, which would you advise
them towards?
Yes.
The data analyst one's kind of hard, right?
Data scientist, statistician, I can parse out a little bit more easily that I used to
be a statistician, and now I'm a data scientist.
And part of that is I no longer want to compute p-values as part of my work, so I don't do
that anymore.
I think it was great training for me in that I understand how to think about data, and
I know how data should be organized, but I'm not actually interested in doing the analysis
or the heavy lifting of the analysis.
So if you really like doing the analysis and finding the results, then statistics is a
great way to go.
I think data science is obviously a very broad field and can mean a lot of things, but maybe
to further delineate, you can do software engineering flavors of data science, and
you can do more data analyst flavors of data science, and those are two different skill
sets.
So the people that I know that are software engineers, they have less opportunity to work
with data and real-world problems.
They're writing functions and tools to do things, and I do do some of that.
I do do some package writing, but I would really miss working with the data.
I actually like working with data.
I like working with real data, and I like finding the messes and helping find the solutions
to the problems.
So I think that's more of a data analyst role, and it might not have as fancy of a title
or connotation, but I think it's still really fun and valuable work.
Thank you.
I am really loving seeing all this chat that's happening right now, too.
All right, we're going to have to save it.
Download it for me, too.
I know.
I will send it to you, Shannon, because I know it's hard to be able to see.
I'm not even trying.
Yeah.
Alice, I see you had a question.
I saw it pop up, and now I don't even know what it was about, so Alice Walsh, if you
want to jump in next.
Yeah.
Hey, Shannon.
How are you?
I'm good.
I feel like I might have talked to you about this, but on the subject of code review, I
would like to know your thoughts.
Like, in a highly regulated environment, like clinical trials, do you ever do double coding?
Like, two people, like, separately, completely code the same thing and check that they get
the exact same results?
Is that a waste of time?
Is that ever useful?
I kind of want to know your thoughts, you know, as someone who used to do that.
Oh, you used to do double programming?
We had requirements for things, like, before you publish something or put it into certain
things that it had to be.
Yeah, yeah.
So I've only been in this industry for three years.
I'm still learning a lot, but our current mantra is we don't double code things.
We do code review.
We haven't hit an instance yet where we felt the need to double program things, and I suspect
that is more of a company standard than an industry requirement.
Yeah, and I think I'm just super interested in the thinking around it, too, because, like,
a lot of people put in the chat, the code review process can be so beneficial for both
the reviewer and the, like, reviewee, whereas, like, double coding, everyone hates.
Yeah.
It's not fun for anyone.
And you don't learn from each other, and you're just coming up with two different approaches,
but the same solution, yeah, no, I agree.
It doesn't sound like fun.
I like the as tedious and time-consuming as the code review is, like, it's definitely
more enjoyable.
Okay.
If anybody feels that I'm missing their question somewhere in the chat, feel free to just copy
and re-post it there, just so it doesn't go unanswered, too.
I just want to make sure I say that.
Double check there.
Rachel, can I follow up on that last question?
Yeah, of course.
So, you've just spoken about how code review is really beneficial, because, one, it, you
know, validates that things are doing what they're supposed to be doing, and, two, it
validates that things are doing what they're supposed to be doing, and people learn from
each other, but how do you make the argument to invest the time to do code review?
So, if your manager thinks, no, it's too much time, we have too much work, I don't have
time to have two people looking at the same body of code, what's the argument to convince
them?
I mean, I think it's about the quality of the product that you deliver, because there's
just so many places that even, like, I can go wrong, right?
Like, I feel like I'm very well-versed in the data, I'm very well-versed in the, like,
what we need to do, and I'll send it to my direct report and ask her to code review me,
make sure I didn't miss anything, and she found something.
Like, she found, like, oh, my gosh, like, there was this one data frame you actually
forgot to account for when you drew this conclusion, right?
And maybe that logic would have been missed when I just presented a table of numbers,
but it would have been incorrect, and, like, you know, so I think we're just, it's about
increasing our quality and also increasing our, quality of our output and increasing
our internal knowledge base at the same time.
And does that ever become problematic if you're faced with really tight deadlines?
It's challenging, but it's, like, not an excuse not to do it.
It's, like, it's not something that you, it's non-negotiable for me.
Like, this deliverable can't go out without a code review.
I think there are different levels of review you can also employ for quality checks, right?
Like, if you don't have time, there are, like, especially if you're, like, tabling numbers,
there are some shortcuts you can take in terms of, like, I don't have time to, like, look
through the code, but I'm going to actually, like, look through some raw data listings.
I'm going to spot check some numbers.
I'm going to make sure that that five matches this five lines right here.
And, like, if you're in a super pinch, but it's, yeah, for me, it's still non-negotiable.
It doesn't go out without a review.
I think you may have found a new blog post.
So, one, why the argument for code review is good, and two, shortcuts if you don't have
time or your manager won't give you the time.
So, it's, yeah, so that's the fight I'm currently in.
So, we'll see how it goes.
Okay.
I see there are a few anonymous questions I had missed from a little bit earlier, but
one was a lot of training is online now.
As an instructor, what are your views of online training, and do you have any tips for delivering
online training?
Like, are we talking about, like, face-to-face interactive online training, or, like, async,
like, online courses, or, I mean, I guess it was anonymous, so you can answer.
Maybe async?
Yeah, I mean, I've certainly been a participant in, like, async online courses before.
I've never really run one myself.
I think those are harder to make.
I mean, they're good.
Definitely, like, a lot of great, good Coursera courses and stuff, like, out there, but I
think they're harder to, like, make meaningful, make stick, make, like, long-term impressions
in your brain, at least for me.
But what I do do more of is online training in terms of interactive workshops, especially
for our ladies.
I do really enjoy that because I still, like, really love teaching.
It's super fun, and I'm glad I have the opportunity to do that every now and then.
In terms of tips for making those run well, like, you have to, like, let there be, like,
awkward pauses.
You have to stop and let people's brains, like, catch up so that you give them the opportunity
to ask questions.
You don't just say, does anyone have questions, and you move on.
Like, you say, does anyone have questions, and you stop, and you awkwardly stare at the
screen and let it be quiet, and just when you think you're about ready to move on, someone's
going to pipe in with a question.
So you really have to give the people the time, and it's even harder when it's online,
and you, like, now, like, people's, you got black squares, right?
And, like, so when you're in a room, you can read people's faces.
Like, you can see, like, I, and especially if, like, you've been working with them for
a while.
Like, you're, like, you have your confused face on.
We need to stop right now.
So it's definitely harder to do that online.
Yeah, I think sometimes, like, being, like, the only one with a camera on, I'm not talking
about the Hangouts, but, like, a workshop or something, and you're just talking.
It's like, I don't know if anybody's actually getting this or listening, or did they walk
away?
That's really hard.
Yeah.
The other anonymous question was, what is the best way for a junior member of staff
to influence senior managers?
How would you prefer to be approached?
Directly?
I mean, yeah, I think there's lots of reasons.
People, if there's a conversation you want to have with someone, then have it.
I think there's lots of reasons to be afraid of having that conversation that you might
think it might not be received well or whatever.
But you don't know until you have that conversation.
So I would just say directly approach that person and present your ideas.
But I'm not quite sure if that was the question.
That was Dina, so I'm happy to.
Yeah, if that was your question, feel free to add any follow-up in Slido, too, if you
want.
And Camilla, I see you had asked a question a little bit earlier going back to the clinical
data.
Do you want to jump in?
And I'm happy to read it.
Oh, there you are.
Yeah, I was just fiddling with the mic.
No worries.
Yeah, I just have a question regarding clinical trials data.
So earlier you mentioned that clinical trials data tends to come to you in a lot of different
data frames.
And I've used real-world data in the form of public health data sets, but I'm really
trying to learn how to use electronic medical records.
Do you have any advice for someone who's starting this field and interested in working with
clinical trials data, especially things that are really awkward and messy like nested variables?
Honestly, I don't deal with electronic medical records directly, so we design our own data
capture systems.
And so the way it comes out is prescribed by that data capture system.
So I'd be curious to learn more specifically about the types of data you're dealing with
and that nesting structure before I could really offer you some sound advice.
But I think one thing that kind of helps is if you can find a sweet spot with things that
mimic that structure but aren't quite as Wild West.
And so, for example, I don't know if you're talking about something like API access or
whatever, but kind of taking baby steps to learn about those workflows maybe in a different
context that's like lower stakes or maybe where the content matter is more familiar
to you so you understand how to navigate that process.
So, for example, like the first time I ever used API tokens was like on a personal project
to create a library of books that I checked out during COVID for my kids when I wanted
to create this like catalog of books and learned how to like use APIs that way.
And it was a cool learning experience that like transferred over knowledge to like API
work that I need to tackle now.
So happy to chat with you more.
I know it wasn't specifically about electronic medical records and be curious to know like
more details if you want to connect at another time.
Yeah, I'm so appreciative.
That would be wonderful.
Thank you.
And fun fact, Shannon, that was actually, that example was the first time we ever connected.
I realized.
Oh, really?
I saw that library book post.
Nice.
Bill had asked a question around suggestions on how to create survival graphs with tables
for presentations, publications, or regulatory submissions.
And I know, Travis, you had just shared a link that was getting a little bit of attention
there in the chat.
So I didn't know if you wanted to just talk about that briefly too.
Sure, the link is good.
There's a lot of in the Pharmaverse more broadly, for those who are interested in this space.
The Pharmaverse is a collective, I guess I'll call it, that has a pretty broad selection
of packages that are useful for regulatory submissions.
And this is one of them that I posted from this Insights Engineering GitHub org that
just has a very cool list of tables, listings, and graphs or figures.
And yeah, it comes with R code and then the rendered version of that R code and the HTML
document.
It's a really beautifully rendered page.
So it's nice, not only for programmers, but for stakeholders to look through and see what
it is that they would like to see with their TLGs.
And then we can kind of produce it and modify them as needed on our side.
Can you remind me what a TLG is again?
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, tables, listings, graphics.
Sometimes TLFs, tables, listings, figures.
I don't know why we have to abbreviate everything in pharma.
Sorry.
Or sometimes it's TFLs or...
Yeah, just to make it extra fun.
And if you're talking specifically about survival analysis, I would definitely recommend
Daniel Soberg's DG CertFit package, which is comprehensive and flexible to
both tables and visualizations.
Thank you.
I see Azuka also asked, do you have any thoughts about simulating clinical trials?
Have you used a lot of Bayesian adaptive design in your work?
That is something that we are just starting to get into and I'm just starting to learn
about, but no, I don't have much experience to date.
Well, I know we just have a few minutes left here and we've shared a bunch of ways to find
your blogs and different blogs, but what is the best way to connect with you or keep updated
on things that you're putting out into the world?
Sure.
I'm on LinkedIn.
I'm on the R-Ladies community Slack.
I'm on Mastodon.
And so you can find me in a lot of different places.
And if you message me and I don't reply, you're welcome to message me again, because sometimes
I forget where all those messages are, like which platform they were actually on.
And I know we mentioned this in the beginning before we started, I think, but you'll also
be at the POSIT conference.
And is this 10 days away?
Yeah.
Do you want to share a little bit about the workshop?
Sure.
And so at POSIT Conf, I will be co-teaching What They Forgot to Teach You About R with
David Aja.
We've taught this together for three years.
Super fun material.
This year, we are teaching a half day on debugging and a half day on personal R administration.
So if you want to get into the weeds of how your computer works with your R installation,
that's David's section.
If you want to understand how to more efficiently debug functions, like if you've never used
the debugger, if you've never used a browser statement, any of that, like I have a million
videos up on YouTube because I give it at so many different workshops.
You can look for that content or you can come join us live in the workshop.
It's always more fun in person.
And you're also giving a talk.
And I will also be giving a talk.
My talk is called Context is King.
I'll be in the Making Great Tables session.
And we're going to be talking about variable labels in R, which I think is a not very well
known feature.
And I think there's a lot of advantages to using this feature that I'm going to talk
about.
How do you prepare for everything that's going to be at the same time?
Well, luckily for PositConf, I have well-tested teaching material.
I didn't actually try to give a talk the first year I was teaching a workshop.
That would have been crazy.
I know people that do that, but that's not for me.
So at least the workshop's pretty well set.
Awesome.
Well, I'm so excited to see you there.
I did just want to let everybody know that, so you've probably heard, when people get
accepted for talks at PositConf, we have them go through speaker training, if they
want, with this organization called Articulation.
And Articulation is going to actually join the Data Science Hangout next week.
So if you want to learn from them without yet being a PositConf speaker, I encourage
you to join next week's Data Science Hangout too.
Blythe and Acacia from Articulation will be here.
That'd be cool.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Well, thank you so much, Shannon.
I really appreciate you taking the time to join us and sharing your experience.
And thank you to everybody here in the chat with all these amazing links and everything
that was shared here too.
Thank you all.
Have a great rest of the day, everybody.